Now let's turn our attention to a subject that's still very popular now in 2018,
Server Message Block file sharing.
This slide makes me laugh a little bit because the graphic dates back to
before the year 2000 or probably around the year 2000.
It's a Microsoft graphic that's appeared in their official curriculum training,
and I've taught using this graphic for almost as
long as I've been in the industry,
and I've been in the industry full time since 1997.
By the way, the attribution again is in the lower left.
I want to teach the SMB file sharing predominantly through a demo,
but here I just want to get you started with the use case.
In a business environment of practically any size,
you want to make it convenient to share files.
You don't want to email file copies.
I know that that still happens in 2018,
and it's very unfortunate because when you have multiple
file versions going across different users,
and they're sending them back and forth,
you're going to have version control problems,
almost guaranteed.
So the idea is in Windows you can use the SMB protocol,
that's the Server Message Block Protocol that's
been around in Windows for a long, long,
long time, to conveniently share folders.
Now you can share entire drives, specifically volumes,
but more commonly,
you have a folder that contains one or more resources that you want to
share with one or more users in your local area network,
so you can set shared folder permissions on that resource.
By the process of inheritance,
all of the resources inside that folder pick up the
permissions that are set on the folder.
But what you do in the business world is you can customize the
permissions on the contents of a shared folder on a file-by-file
or subfolder-by-subfolder basis.
This is one of the great benefits of the NTFS file system.
Hopefully,
you've already covered that module earlier in the
course so you're familiar with NTFS.
So in this example, we have a folder, Public,
that's shared out with full control permission for all network users,
but there may be a sensitive file in there that you want users who
are in that users group to read but not write.
You see what I mean?
Full control happens to be the widest possible permission in Windows.
So if we set the NTFS permission read-only on file,
the most restrictive permission becomes the effective permission,
and those users will be able to read/write anything else in that folder,
but only read FileA.
You see what I mean?
So to sum up, NTFS permissions are always there on NTFS volumes.
You may need to customize them though if,
for instance,
you set a shared folder permission that gives a user or a group higher
permission than they would have at the NTFS level.
If you're thinking to yourself, Tim, wow,
determining a user's effective permissions can be problematic,
you're absolutely right, and you're thinking properly.
For that reason,
there's some general best practices with how to set these permissions.
I'm going to show you that in the demo.
And there's also built into Windows Client and Windows Server a mechanism
for examining the effective permissions that a user has.
That's something that you wind up doing from a troubleshooting perspective all the time as a systems administrator.